docs/dashboards-react-docs (#23942)
highcharts/highcharts: docs/dashboards/wrappers/dashboards-with-react.md

- responds to container resizing (easy responsiveness),
- lets you disable the GUI and use your own structure when you need full control.
Read more in the [Layout docs](https://www.highcharts.com/docs/dashboards/layout-description).

### A. Built-in layout – quick start (full demo)

The layout module is required to use the built-in rows/cells system:

```tsx
import '@highcharts/dashboards/es-modules/masters/modules/layout.src.js';
```

Define the dashboard in a small React app and pass the config to `Dashboards.board`:

```tsx
// App.tsx
export default function App() {
  const config = {
    gui: { enabled: true },
    layout: {
      rows: [{
        cells: [{ id: 'cell-0' }, { id: 'cell-1' }]
      }]
    },
    components: [{
      renderTo: 'cell-0',
      type: 'Highcharts',
      chartOptions: { title: { text: 'Series A' }, series: [{ data: [1, 2, 3] }] }
    }, {
      renderTo: 'cell-1',
      type: 'Highcharts',
      chartOptions: { title: { text: 'Series B' }, series: [{ data: [3, 2, 1] }] }
    }]
  };

  useEffect(() => {
    const board = Dashboards.board('dashboard', config);

    return () => board?.destroy();
  }, []);

  return <div id="dashboard" />;
}
```

> ### B. Custom layout (manual rows/cells, full demo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Option B: Custom layout
```

> When you need full markup control, disable the GUI and point components to your own element ids.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you need [full markup control](https://www.highcharts.com/docs/dashboards/layout-description#custom-layout), disable `gui` and point components to your own element ids.
```
